Dev Blog Post - Replica Signed Queries (#2188)
dfinity/portal: blog/features/replica-signed-queries.md

  
- `reply`: a CBOR map with the field arg (blob) which contains the reply data.
  
- `signatures ([+ node-signature])`: a list containing one node signature for the returned query response.

If the call resulted in a reject, the response is a CBOR map with the following fields:

- `status (text)`: "rejected".
  
- `reject_code (nat)`: The reject code (see Reject codes: https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#reject-codes).
  
- `reject_message (text)`: a textual diagnostic message.
  
- `error_code (text)`: an optional implementation-specific textual error code (see Error codes: https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#error-codes).
  
- `signatures ([+ node-signature])`: a list containing one node signature for the returned query response.

The query's signature (whose type is denoted as node-signature) is a [CBOR](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#cbor) (see CBOR) map with the following fields:

- `timestamp (nat)`: the timestamp of the signature.

- `signature (blob)`: the actual signature.

- `identity (principal)`: the principal of the node producing the signature.

> Queries also include a request ID, which is a SHA256 hash of the query's contents. With this `request_id` value, signatures for one query cannot be confused or exchanged for another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual parts that are signed include the query response from the execution layer, the timestamp and the request ID of the query, which is a SHA256 hash of the query's contents. With this `request_id` value, signatures for one query cannot be confused or exchanged for another.
```
I think we can explain what are signed altogether here after we show the `node-signature`.

With replica signed queries, query responses will now use the following format:

```
struct  NodeSignature {
    // the batch time
    timestamp: Time,
    // the actual signature
    signature: Blob,
    // the ID of the node that created the signature
    identity: NodeId
    }
pub enum HttpQueryResponse {
Replied {
    reply: HttpQueryResponseReply,
    signatures: Vec<NodeSignature>,
},
Rejected {
    error_code: String,
    reject_code: u64,
    signatures: Vec<NodeSignature>,
},
}

> ```

Reviewer: NodeSignature and HttpQueryResponse have already been depicted above. I think the rust code can be removed.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
NodeSignature and HttpQueryResponse have already been depicted above. I think the rust code can be removed.

> Query response verification is one via agents, such as agent-rs and agent-js, and other agents developed by members of the IC community. Agents now introduce a new `AgentError` type that indicates a verification failure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query response verification is done via agents, such as agent-rs and agent-js, and other agents developed by members of the IC community. Agents now introduce a new `AgentError` type that indicates a verification failure. 
```
is it a typo?

## What are replica signed queries?

Replica signed queries are a new feature that introduces replica signatures in query responses. Every response to query call will contain a signature that signs specific parts of the response using the replica's private key. Then, query responses can be validated by fetching the replica's public key from the subnet's state tree, reading the public key of the signing replica, then verifying the signature.

This new feature includes two primary changes: first, the subnet state tree now exposes the public keys of the replicas, then query responses will now contain a signature. 

Having a single replica signature in a query response doesn't completely solve the problem that query responses cannot be trusted, however, replica signed queries do help improve the security of queries since the recipient can validate that the response came from a replica on the correct subnet. The primary goal of this feature is to provide better guarantees against malicious boundary nodes, since replica signed queries make it impossible for a malicious boundary node to return false data. 

## How do replica signed queries work?

> First, a list of node IDs and their corresponding public keys is put into the subnet's state tree. The `node_signing_public_key` value is used for signing query replies. This value is stored in the registry, then populated into the ReplicatedState field `NodePublicKeys` through a `get_crypto_key_for_node` call to the registry that returns the public keys for the subnet's nodes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, a list of node IDs and their corresponding public keys is put into the subnet's state tree so that they can be certified by the subnet.
```
The latter part is for the internal implementation of replica and contains specific variable and functions names, which the public users are not familiar with.

Users can obtain the certificate to validate the node's keys through an HTTP `read_state` call that includes a timestamp value. 

> To support replica signed queries, the query response format has been changed. Previously, query responses used the following format:
> 
> ```
> pub enum HttpQueryResponse {
>     Replied {
>         reply: HttpQueryResponseReply,
>     },
>     Rejected {
>         error_code: String,
>         reject_code: u64,
>         reject_message: String,
>     },
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support replica signed queries, the query response format has been changed. The response to a query call adds a list with one signature for the returned response produced by the IC node that evaluated the query call. 
```
Because the new response format simply adds one more field, we don't need to show it in detail twice. The new format is elaborated below.

> ```

Reviewer: I generally suggest removing all the code from the post for several reasons. 
First, they are for internal implementation in certain languages. 
Second, these code are drafted in the very early stage of feature designing and implementation may vary. 
Last, we have formal and canonical representation of all the data types in our interface specification.  https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#http-query

If we want to keep this, it is better to quote the corresponding part in the specification. I will add links for each of them now.

Reviewer: ```
If the query call resulted in a reply, the response is a CBOR (see [CBOR](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#cbor)) map with the following fields:

status (text): "replied"

reply: a CBOR map with the field arg (blob) which contains the reply data.

signatures ([+ node-signature]): a list containing one node signature for the returned query response.

If the call resulted in a reject, the response is a CBOR map with the following fields:

status (text): "rejected"

reject_code (nat): The reject code (see [Reject codes](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#reject-codes)).

reject_message (text): a textual diagnostic message.

error_code (text): an optional implementation-specific textual error code (see [Error codes](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#error-codes)).

signatures ([+ node-signature]): a list containing one node signature for the returned query response.
```

The actual portion of the call that is signed is the HttpQueryResponse from the execution of the call. If the call is replied to, the `reply` field is included. If the call is rejected, the `error_code`, `reject_code`, and `reject_message` fields will be included in the response. 

Queries also include a request ID, which is a SHA256 hash of the query's contents. With this `request_id` value, signatures for one query cannot be confused or exchanged for another.  Query responses will also include a timestamp value. 

Query responses will now use the following format:

```
struct  NodeSignature {
    // the batch time
    timestamp: Time,
    // the actual signature
    signature: Blob,
    // the ID of the node that created the signature
    identity: NodeId

>     }

Reviewer: ```
The response to a query call contains a list with one signature for the returned response produced by the IC node that evaluated the query call. The signature (whose type is denoted as node-signature) is a [CBOR](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#cbor) (see CBOR) map with the following fields:

timestamp (nat): the timestamp of the signature.

signature (blob): the actual signature.

identity (principal): the principal of the node producing the signature.
```

pub enum HttpQueryResponse {
Replied {
    reply: HttpQueryResponseReply,
    signatures: Vec<NodeSignature>,
},
Rejected {
    error_code: String,
    reject_code: u64,
    signatures: Vec<NodeSignature>,
},

> }

Reviewer: ```
If the query call resulted in a reply, the response is a CBOR (see [CBOR](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#cbor)) map with the following fields:

status (text): "replied"

reply: a CBOR map with the field arg (blob) which contains the reply data.

signatures ([+ node-signature]): a list containing one node signature for the returned query response.

If the call resulted in a reject, the response is a CBOR map with the following fields:

status (text): "rejected"

reject_code (nat): The reject code (see [Reject codes](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#reject-codes)).

reject_message (text): a textual diagnostic message.

error_code (text): an optional implementation-specific textual error code (see [Error codes](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/ic-interface-spec/#error-codes)).

signatures ([+ node-signature]): a list containing one node signature for the returned query response.
```

```

Query response verification is one via agents, such as agent-rs and agent-js, and other agents developed by members of the IC community. Agents now introduce a new `AgentError` type that indicates a verification failure. 

In agent-rs, query response is defined in the file `ic-agent/src/agent/replica_api.rs` as follows:

```
pub struct CallReply {
   #[serde(with = "serde_bytes")]
   pub arg: Vec<u8>,
   pub signatures: Vec<NodeSignature>,
}
#[derive(Debug, Clone, Serialize, Deserialize, Ord, PartialOrd, Eq, PartialEq)]
pub struct RejectResponse {
    /// The [reject code] returned by the replica.
    pub reject_code: RejectCode,
    /// The rejection message.
    pub reject_message: String,
    /// The optional [error code]returned by the replica.
    #[serde(default)]
    pub error_code: Option<String>,
    pub signatures: Vec<NodeSignature>,
}

#[derive(Debug, Clone, Deserialize, Serialize)]
#[serde(tag = "status")]
pub enum QueryResponse {
   #[serde(rename = "replied")]
   Replied { reply: CallReply },
   #[serde(rename = "rejected")]
   Rejected(RejectResponse),
}

> ```

Reviewer: With the interface specification quoted above, there is no need to mention them separately in agent-rs and agent-js again because they are just the implementation of the same protocol in different languages.

Replica signed queries are supported in agent-rs [versions v0.30.0](https://github.com/dfinity/agent-rs/releases) and newer.

In agent-js, query response is defined in the file `agent-js/packages/agent/src/agent/api.ts` as follows:

```
export type QueryResponse = QueryResponseReplied | QueryResponseRejected;
	
	export const enum QueryResponseStatus {
	 Replied = 'replied',
	 Rejected = 'rejected',
	}
	
	export interface QueryResponseBase {
	 	status: QueryResponseStatus;
               signatures: Array<NodeSignature>;
	}
	
	export interface QueryResponseReplied extends QueryResponseBase {
	 status: QueryResponseStatus.Replied;
	 reply: { arg: ArrayBuffer };
	}
	
	export interface QueryResponseRejected extends QueryResponseBase {
	 status: QueryResponseStatus.Rejected;
	 reject_code: ReplicaRejectCode;
	 reject_message: string;

> 	}

Reviewer: Ditto.

```

Replica signed queries are supported in agent-js [versions v0.20.0](https://github.com/dfinity/agent-js/releases) and newer.

## How are query responses verified? 

To verify a replica signed query, first the agent requests the path `/subnet` in a read state call that is separate to `/api/v2/canister/<effective_canister_id>/read_state` to get the certificate. A boundary node routes this call to the subnet that hosts the canister. A subnet's state tree only contains the keys of its own nodes. All node keys are cached.

Then, to verify the certificate, the timestamp stored at `/time` of the node keys will be checked to assure that the nodes are still within the subnet. The agent can look up the key of the node that is present in the query response signature, either from the cache or the `read_state` response. Once the node's public key is obtained, the client can verify the signature against the hash of the response's relevant fields. 

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: Before the conclusion, I am thinking if we can add a section about how users can start benefiting from the feature, i.e. when the feature becomes effective. There are three aspects.
1. The replica has already producing signatures on query responses. Old version of agents automatically ignores the signature field.
2. For agent-rs, signature verification on query responses is by default enabled on [versions v0.30.0] and newer. Tools like dfx will also start using new version of agent-rs in new releases.
3. For agent-js,
(1) Already existing applications will have to update the agent-js version to [versions v0.20.0] and newer.
(2) Dfx will always use the agent-js version tagged as @latest when running dfx new. Therefore, new applications will automatically enable signature verification on query responses.

@krpeacock @adamspofford-dfinity Could you help take a look at these statements and offer some advice? Thank you.

---
title: "Announcing replica signed queries"

> description: To enhance the trustworthiness of queries by providing better guarantees against malicious attacks, we're excited to announce the release of replica signed queries!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: To enhance the trustworthiness of queries by providing better guarantees against attacks, we're excited to announce the release of replica signed queries!
```
The formulation “malicious attacks” seems not commonly used as attacks are malicious in nature. Maybe for simplicity, just attacks here.

tags: [New features]

> image: /img/blog/replica-signed-queries.jpg

Reviewer: Great. I have seen the webpage after the PR is merged.  https://internetcomputer.org/blog/features/replica-signed-queries
However, the image does  not show up. Is it because the image path here does not match the image name
`dev-blog-replica-signed-queries.jpg`?

---

When an update call is made to a canister on the Internet Computer, the response to includes a subnet signature that proves the data sent within the request is trustworthy. Query calls, however, are handled by single replicas and don't bear any information that validates their response is trustworthy, since their data could be tampered with by a malicious replica or malicious boundary node. As a workaround, certified data and certified variables can be used, which are embedded in responses to query calls that provide a layer of validation. However, using certified data and variables requires extra work for developers and sometimes does not fit into a developer's workflow seamlessly. 

> To enhance the trustworthiness of queries by providing better guarantees against malicious attacks, we're excited to announce the release of replica signed queries! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enhance the trustworthiness of queries by providing better guarantees against attacks, we're excited to announce the release of replica signed queries! 
```

Then, to verify the certificate, the timestamp stored at `/time` of the node keys will be checked to assure that the nodes are still within the subnet. The agent can look up the key of the node that is present in the query response signature, either from the cache or the `read_state` response. Once the node's public key is obtained, the client can verify the signature against the hash of the response's relevant fields. 

## How to use replica signed queries

On the IC, the replica has already begun producing signatures on query responses. 

To use agent-rs, signature verification on query responses is enabled by default on versions v0.30.0 and newer. Tools such as dfx will be updated to use the latest version of agent-rs in the next release (v0.15.2). 

To use agent-js, existing applications will need to update their agent-js version to v0.20.0 and newer. dfx always uses the `@latest` version of agent-js, meaning new applications will automatically have signatre verification enabled on query responses. 

Older versions of the agents will automatically ignore the `signature` field. 

## Conclusion

> In conclusion, replica signed queries are a new feature that aims to provide a level of trustworthiness to query calls by preventing malicious attacks that may alter the response of a query call. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In conclusion, replica signed queries are a new feature that aims to provide a level of trustworthiness to query calls by preventing attacks that may alter the response of a query call. 
```
